---
title: "Trace a request path"
description: "How to know for which routers a HTTP request browses?"
authors: ["glegoux"]
time_reading_minutes: 5
category: "Web"
tags: ["Internet", "Network"]
---

What are the used path of HTTP request generated by your web browser to load a web page between your computer and a server web? I suppose each time DNS resolution is done, that is to say the web browser knows IP server.

{% include article/google-drawing.html title="Request path from your laptop to web server" src="https://docs.google.com/drawings/d/e/2PACX-1vT8X8g2uXuTLb3lruhcD17wdroEZaMSFRbiKbMKpdYNKTvkGnRgTs80T7L4SS1fE_-68ofjmjim0q0-/pub?w=855&h=364" %}

Internet is a network of routers. When your web browser is sending one HTTP request your computer uses by default the destination `0.0.0.0` if no one sub-network matches with your original destination IP address in its route table. 

~~~ terminal
$ route -n
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
0.0.0.0         192.168.1.254   0.0.0.0         UG    600    0        0 wlp6s0
~~~

Here the gateway `192.168.1.254`  is my Internet box related to network interface `wlp6s0`.

~~~ terminal
$ nslookup 192.168.1.254
Server:		127.0.1.1
Address:	127.0.1.1#53
name = bbox.lan.
~~~ 

Your request is sent to box of your Internet Service Provider (ISP), for me it is a French ISP: Bouygues Telecom. Leaving your Local Area Network (LAN) to the Wide Area Network (WAN) of Internet, thanks to  Network Address Translation  (NAT), your box replaces IP address source in the header of your HTTP request (equals to your private IP, see `ifconfig wlp6s0`) by its public IP address (see `dig +short myip.opendns.com @resolver1.opendns.com`), and keeps in memory this matching only for this request in order to it comes from your computer by doing reverse translation. 

The Time to live (TTL) of your request allows to know how many maximally your request can cross routers before arriving at destination. It prevents infinite cycle of routers in the network, by default a value of 64 is recommended depending of diameter of Internet. By modifying this value from 1 to N, you can get the IP address of each router on the path of your request: it will be the IP source of the response of your request HTTP. 

{% include article/google-drawing.html title="Time to Live (TTL)" src="https://docs.google.com/drawings/d/e/2PACX-1vTKqD-P7RBe5bT7jx4i7wOvMQtp3hNgVZchWR8eM3KnJ7Z-bsgBwKYqPfBBW2ABp8zel6wJ6NbuFfcA/pub?w=855&h=364" %}

For example, you can get TTL minimum by successive ping commands, see details in [n_routers.sh](https://github.com/glegoux/glegoux.com/blob/master/articles/6PmiK7b/n_routers.sh) bash script. Each router must decrement TTL value and if TTL is 0, it refuses to transmit message. The minimum TTL is length path in the network to reach the server (by excluding source machine for number of nodes or is directly number of edges). Here one time to live of 4 is insufficient to reach glegoux.com from my machine location:

~~~ terminal
$ ping -c 1 -t 4 glegoux.com
PING glegoux.com (195.164.48.181) 56(84) bytes of data.
From 10.125.135.205 icmp_seq=1 Time to live exceeded

--- glegoux.com ping statistics ---
1 packets transmitted, 0 received, +1 errors, 100% packet loss, time 0ms
~~~

This is valid for outward network path your TTL must be sufficient, you can see your current TTL `cat /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_default_ttl` or with `ping -c 1 localhost` (for Linux default value is 64), and change that without persistence `sudo sysctl net.ipv4.ip_default_ttl=128`. Targeted server must have also sufficient TTL for return network path, this value is decremented (until value 56 here, but we don't know initial value a priori):

~~~ terminal
$ ping -c 1 glegoux.com
PING glegoux.com (195.164.48.181) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 10.125.135.205.rev.poneytelecom.eu (10.125.135.205): icmp_seq=1 ttl=56 time=13.8 ms

--- glegoux.com ping statistics ---
1 packets transmitted, 1 received, 0% packet loss, time 0ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 13.821/13.821/13.821/0.000 ms
~~~

While ping command uses ICMP protocol, the system command `traceroute` realizes that directly with TCP protocol more easily. If there are stars instead of one IP address it means router refused to give its identity.

There is no rule to guarantee that outward path and return path are identical. This is sometimes useful to get traceroute from both ends of your network. Here I am considering only outward path.

By combining that with free IP locator like :

* <http://ip-api.com>
* <https://ipinfo.io>
* <http://getcitydetails.geobytes.com>

You can locate request path via Application Programming Interface (API) with the usage of pre-computed databases of geolocalisation of these free IP locators.

It is important to keep in mind that IP locator is not 100% accurate, only 95% for the best ones. And behind one IP address  can hide a web proxy and a virtual private cluster preventing to locate really the destination. Thanks to Regional Internet Registry (RIR) and static address IP of  ISPs, IP locators can know the location of some IP addresses easily. 

{% include article/image.html title="Map of Regional Internet Registry" src="rir.png" %}

But an constant update and smart analysis of the network is required to locate any IP address (IPv4 or IPv6), because of dynamic IP addresses and moving connected objects for instance in the Internet of Things (IoT) or mobile networks. In addition, this location could not be too precised to respect private life of each Internet surfer, even if this one shares its location via its web browser.

With this [Proof of Concept (PoC)](https://github.com/glegoux/articles-glegoux-com/tree/master/articles/2019-07-14-geo-location-of-request-path/code), you can run `get_route.sh glegoux.com` to get IP locations in csv file `route.csv` and see the result via Google Maps (just [get your own API token](https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/javascript/get-api-key)) and a python web server by executing `httpserver.sh` and by visualizing `index.html` in your favorite web browser.

{% include article/image.html title="Geo-location of request path from Paris to glegoux.com" src="map.png" %}

